English (AU) (Spoken) [Manually Transcribed Captions]
github.com/WizardTim/WizardTim-captions
So I'm in the need of some TO-3 transistors
like this one here although this one here is
a genuine HP spare from Motorola, it's some
sort of BJT transistor this one's from 1988
so I don't particularly want to use this one but
this is what a TO-3 transistor looks like if you
haven't seen one before it's a three pin device
although one of the pins is actually the case
but I need a few TO-3 transistors
for a project it's just a constant
current dummy load so I don't really want
to spend very much on the transistors for
it but I’d like to use TO-3 transistors
as something cool and unusual as using
TO-220 transistors does get a bit boring after
a while although TO-220 is quite a nice package
so I’ve heard that the 2N3055 is a rather common
TO-3 transistor so searching it up on Digi-Key we find
a few results here we have one, oh, unit price
call and unit price AU$65 no thank you although
they do have some more and uh AU$107 no thanks
other than there so in stock and also exclude
marketplace items because I do not trust this
Rochester Electronics I swear they mislead people
on how many they have in stock I’ve seen them
with millions in stock which is not feasible but
searching for that we've got two left
one for AU$107 which no chance and the other
from ON-Semi for AU$9.73 and they
actually have stock although that's still way too
much if I was doing an actual proper project this
is what I would buy but as just something for fun
um yeah no thank you so of course when you can't
find something for a reasonable price on Digi-Key
of course down to eBay and here we have an eBay
listing for those same transistors and we get
10 for the low low price of AU$4.84 although
plus AU$2.64 shipping which is much better than
nine dollars and something for just one but how
reputable are these especially when buying from
eBay which doesn't really support per listing
feedback unlike AliExpress where you tend to
get a lot more feedback per listing and per
seller so these look pretty suspicious although
I think it will be rather interesting to see
what actually shows up so I’ve bought them
and this is what showed up here and oh
boy yeah these look very very uh genuine
let's have a closer look at one of them
yeah so this marking looks a bit
suspicious although it does say ST 2N3055
and a whole bunch of other manufacturing
codes which seem to be the same on all of them
although interestingly comparing it to
the genuine HP part we can see that the
thickness of the metal and the size and
shape of the can is actually correct so
maybe there is a chance for this
one although if you've been paying
especially close attention you may have noticed
there's something a little bit off about the top
it almost looks like someone has painted over the
previous marking and put a new one on yeah that's
very confidence inspiring now in this case it's
pretty obvious the paint doesn't match very well
although here's a trick many people when making
paints they only really anticipate that people are
going to look at them under normal light so they
don't really think about matching the paint for
UV light so looking at this under UV light we can
see yes there's a massive difference between where
it's been painted yeah and this one's actually
rather good they uh managed to get it on only
the top although here's one where they were a bit
too generous with the paint and it's uh leaked
down the side so let's see maybe there's
something underneath this paint not quite
sure why they'd paint over it and not just rub the
previous marking off so maybe it's laser engraved
so spraying it with some isopropanol alcohol and
wiping it we can see it comes off pretty easy
so then I just submerged
it in some more isopropanol
and then gave it a bit of a rub
more and the paint quickly came off
although unfortunately we can see underneath it
isn't laser engraved it presumably was just ink
stamped so I’m not quite sure why they'd bother to
paint over the entire thing instead of just taking
it off with solvent but sure whatever it must be
cheaper somehow I don't really understand how low
paint's somewhat expensive especially metallic-ish
paint although one thing I quickly realized was
that you don't actually have to submerge this
in alcohol to remove the paint the paint can
just be scraped off with a plastic tool like this
ruler here so I’m rather interested to see what's
actually inside this so I took a pair of side
cutters to it and just started cutting it open
I could have used the Dremel but I didn't really
want to get filings of metal all over this thing
because I think it might be interesting to have
a look at it working without the case on and now
that we've got a little hole we can see that yes
there is actually a die in here and it's a lot
bigger than I was expecting I was expecting some
tiny little two by two millimetre die that's out
of say a 2N222 transistor that they've stuck in
here but no it is actually a reasonably large die
so this may actually be a genuine part.
So cutting it into it more just
to take the entire lid off.
And if you do go doing this please be careful
because the metal ends up being quite sharp.
and now that we've got it all off we can see that
the die is actually mounted on this little piece
of metal here which presumably increases the
junction-to-case thermal coefficient
so they definitely haven't cheaped out on that
aspect so I’m wondering if this is actually a
genuine part that's actually a different
transistor that they've just relabelled 2N3055
because that's a very commonly searched transistor
and people will maybe pay more for that so I’m not
quite sure what's really going on here because
this transistor looks like it would do the job
there's nothing really wrong with the size of
the die or the construction of the metal case
the wire bonding is a bit dodgy but I mean that's
sort of to be expected in these sort of low cost
electronics but I mean it would still work the
wire bond here that's broken though that that
was because of me so yes rather interesting to see
what's inside one of these cheap eBay transistors
So I hope you at least learnt something
maybe out of this I’ll just leave you with
this thermal image though that I thought was
pretty cool of it operating without the case on
and as always thanks for watching